Hello everyone.
In this lesson we will use Web PAC to set up an automated CSX workflow.
Here's an overview for this lesson.
First we will go over what a CSX workflow even is.
So we are all on the same page.
After that we'll have an idea of what we're trying to set up and why we're setting it up.
So then we will be ready to actually add CSF support to our Web pack configuration.
So let's get started from the top.
What is a CSX workflow.
In a previous lesson I mentioned something named CSX auto prefix sir.
It's an automation tool that lets us write CSX like this and automatically turns it into this for us
auto prefix or can save us a ton of time.
And we will be setting it up in this lesson.
But even beyond auto prefix sir there are a lot of other things we wish we could do while writing CSX
that we can't do because web browsers don't support it.
This is where things like sass or less or stylists come into play.
If you've never heard of any of those.
That's a OK.
They are tools that let us do some of the following things in CSX.
So for example maybe we want to save a certain hexadecimal color code of a blue shade to a variable
named Main blue so that we can easily reuse that exact color throughout our CSX or maybe we wish that
we could write nested CSX.
So instead of writing CSX that looks like this we wish we could write CSX.
That looks like this.
But normally we can't do that because 0 percent of Web browsers today support that.
So tools like sass and less and stylists let us write CSX the way we wish we could write it even though
it won't work in a web browser.
And then these tools pass our code through a filter that spits out a new file and in that new file it
automatically converts our code into regular CSX.
That will work in Web browsers.
So it's the best of both worlds.
So in this course in order to get all of those neat CSX features that we just discussed we are not going
to use SAS or less or stylus.
We are going to use something called Post CSX post.
CSX is the trendy new kid on the block in the CSX World but it also has the objective benefit of being
the fastest to compile out of all of the CSX pre and post processors.
All right.
So now we have a general idea of what we want to do in this lesson.
Now it's time to get our hands dirty and actually make it happen with web pack.
Now before we go ahead and start adding CSX support to our Web pack setup let's begin by making sure
that we even have a CSX file that we want to bundle.
So right now do this with me within our travel sites app folder.
Let's dig into the assets folder.
At the moment it contains images and scripts.
Let's go ahead and create a new folder named Stiles.
So I would right click on the assets folder and choose New Folder.
And so we're on the same page.
Let's name this folder lowercase Stiles.
OK.
And then within that new styles folder that's right click and choose new file.
Let's go ahead and name it lowercase Stiles dot C..
All right.
Now within this brand new file let's add a tiny bit of sample or test CSX just so we will know when
things are working.
So let's target the body element and let's just say body should have color orange.
Let's go ahead and save this file and now our first instinct might be to go into our HDMI file and in
the head section load in this CSX file and technically that would work right.
That would add this styling to this web page.
So this text would become orange.
However that's sort of a setup would not leave any room for an automated workflow.
So what we actually want to do and trust me I realize how unintuitive or weird this is going to seem
at first.
But what we actually want to do is load this CSX file from within our main JavaScript file.
First let me show you what I mean.
And then a bit later on in this lesson we'll understand why we're doing this and the benefits behind
it.
So right now do this with me within our app assets folder.
Dig into the scripts folder and I want you to open up app dot J Yes.
So up at the top let's add a brand new line of code and type this in with me in Port and then a pair
of quotes and then within the quotes we want to point towards our new CSX file.
So dot dot slash to go up out of the scripts folder into the assets folder and then we want to go into
the styles folder and then we're interested in the file named styles dot CSX.
Okay.
Now go ahead and save this file.
Now at the moment if we tried to run Web back.
So tell web pack to process and bundle this javascript file it would run into an error.
So we're not even going to try yet.
It would run into an error because remember out of the box without any extra configuration web pack
only understands JavaScript files not CSI files.
However if we make a trip to the NPM grocery store we can easily add CSF support to our Web pack setup
so open up your command line and then type this command in with me npm install and we're going to install
two packages the name of the first package is C S S dash loader space okay.
And then the name of the second package we want is style dash loader.
And then at the very end at a space and type dash dash save dash Dev OK.
Now that we've downloaded those two packages let's go leverage them.
So to do that I want you to jump into your web pack dot config dot J.S. file within this configuration
object.
We can tell web pack what to do when it runs into certain files by adding a property named module so
down at the bottom here maybe at the end of this watch line let's add a comma and then let's dropdown
and lets out a new property named module so module colon and then create a javascript object with curly
brackets within the brackets.
Let's drop down OK inside this object.
We just need a property named rules.
So type in rules.
Colon and then this is going to be an array.
So square brackets.
So within our array within these square brackets we can dropdown to stay organized and let's create
an object here.
So curly brackets now for the time being we're only going to have this one object in the array.
But the idea is that you can have multiple objects in this array where you tell Westpac to do something
different depending on the file type.
So right now we're interested in the C Ss file type.
Right.
We want to tell Webb pack what it should do if we run into a C Ss file.
So within this innermost object that we've created we're going to give it to properties.
The first property is named test.
So feel free to drop down in between these curly brackets and give it a property name of.
Test test colon.
And now we give this a regular expression forward slash and then a backslash and then dot c SS and then
a dollar sign and then a forward slash and then the letter I essentially this is telling web pack that
within this rule we're only interested in files that pass the following test.
Right.
Only if the file name ends in dot CSX.
OK so if a file does end in dot CSX what do we want to do.
Well at the end of this line lets out a comma and let's add one more property named.
So use colon and then this is going to be an array.
So square brackets.
Now this is where we can leverage those packages that we just downloaded from NPM.
So remember the first package that we downloaded was named so quotes it was named C S S dash loader.
So now I think you're getting the idea.
We're saying only if a file ends in dot CSX.
Only then would we want to use the CSX loader.
Cool.
So we have now configured Westpac to be able to understand and process CSX files.
Let's go ahead and save this and test it out.
So once you've saved this file go ahead and open up your command line and to refresh your memory to
tell Westpac to begin running.
We just type in the command and P.M. run Dev cool.
So at this point I have a bit of good news and bad news.
The good news is that we did not run into any errors in the command line meaning Westpac was not confused
or upset that we imported a CSX file from within our JavaScript file and if we take a look at the bundled
file that it generated for us.
So within our app folder if you open up bundled the DOT J.S. don't worry.
This is an auto generated file so I don't expect you to be able to dig through the file and make sense
of it.
But if you press control f or command F to search for orange right remember we added the CSX rule of
body color should be orange.
You can see that bundled in this file.
So we successfully bundled CSX into this javascript bundle file.
So that's the good news The bad news is if you load up your Web page and if you refresh we still see
the annoying alert pop up.
But notice that the text is not orange.
So even though we included and bundled that CSX it's not actually being used in the browser.
So that's the bad news.
But I guess the second dose of good news is that that's very easy to fix if we want to actually apply
that styling in the browser all we need to do is this.
So back in our web pack dot config dot J.S. file within our use array.
Right.
So we have these square brackets and then the quote CSX loader.
Well right before this opening quote for CSX loader let's add a comma.
And then before the comma add another pair of quotes and type in style dash loader.
So CSX loader lets Webb pack understand or bundle CSX files and then style loader actually applies or
uses that CSX in the browser itself.
So with this in place let's go ahead and save this file again and then we need to open up the command
line and tell the old instance of Webb pack to stop running or to stop watching us.
So press control see to quit that task and then we just want to fire up Webb pack again using the latest
configuration.
So just run NPM run dev and now back in the browser if I refresh so we still see that annoying alert.
But if I scroll down to a bit of text you can see it's orange.
Cool.
And because our web PAC is using the watch feature if we go into our CSX file styles that CSX and maybe
if I change this color from Orange to green and hit save that's going to trigger a brand new Web pack
bundle.
So we don't have to do anything if we just go back to the browser and refresh cool.
Now the text is green.
Now that we've confirmed that the bundled JavaScript files loading in the browser let's go get rid of
this annoying alert message.
So within our app dot J.S. file you can just get rid of the test alert line
cool.
Now that things are working.
Let's take a moment to address why we're doing this right.
Why are we loading CSX from within our javascript.
Well actually before we even get into the benefits or reasons why we're doing this I want to begin by
saying Don't worry when it comes time to actually serve our Web site to the public we will set things
up so that our CSX lives in its own traditional separate CSX file that's included in the head of our
HDMI.
So we will get to that a bit later on.
However during our development right while we're building the site there are many speed and performance
advantages to having our CSX handled by our javascript for example in a future chapter we will set up
Web packs development server so that when we save a change to our CSX we don't even need to refresh
in the web browser.
The new styles will just be applied without a refresh even on the fly.
For now let's not worry about that.
So we need to walk before we can run.
For now it's OK that we need to refresh to see the latest changes.
I just want you to see what we can look forward to in future chapters.
The idea is that by letting web pack handle all or as many of our assets as possible we are getting
many benefits in return.
Anyways back to the task at hand at this point we've added basic CSF support to our Web pack setup.
Now it's time to add post CSF support.
So in the command line go ahead and stop the current task by pressing control C..
OK.
And then let's download the post CSX loader for web PAC so run this command with me npm install the
name of the package is post CSX dash loader at the end let's include dash dash save dash Devon push
enter OK.
Now let's go.
Leverage that package or loader.
So jump back into our web pack dot config dot J.S. file and if a file ends in dot CSX we just want to
use an additional loader.
So at the end of this use array right after these quotes for CSX loader out a comma and we want to add
post CSX loader.
However it's a bit different.
Instead of simply listing its name like we did for these two loaders with post CSX we need to give it
a few options or plug ins.
Let me show you what I mean.
So instead of just a name we actually need to provide an object so curly brackets and then we need to
give it a few options.
First option is loader.
So loader colon.
And this is just quotes.
And then the name of the loader so post CSX dash loader and then right after those quotes add a comma
we also need another property named options.
So options colon and then another javascript object.
So an additional pair of curly brackets.
And then within this object we give it a property named plugins so plug ins colon.
And now this is where we list all of the post CSF features that we want.
This is because out of the box post CSX doesn't really enable anything.
It's sort of an empty canvas and then it's up to us to load in whichever post CSX plug ins we want.
So right after plugins Coleman let's create a variable that will be an array we can name it anything
we want but just so we're on the same page.
Let's name it post CSX plug ins towards the top of the file.
Let's go create a variable with this matching name.
So I'm going to scroll up towards the top of this file maybe on line number two let's add a new line
and let's say const post CSX plug ins should equal an array.
So square brackets and then we just list whichever plug ins or features we want before we list any plug
ins here.
Let's go download the plug ins so in our command line let's run npm install and let's grab three packages.
So the first one is post CSX dash simple dash VARs the second plug in is named post CSX dash nested
in the third plug is simply named auto prefix fixer.
Then at the very end let's add dash dash save dash.
Def press enter.
OK.
Now let's list these packages within our array.
So let's require in post CSX dash simple VARs after the parentheses.
Let's add a comma.
Let's also require in post CSX dash nested comma new line.
Let's also require an auto prefix.
OK.
Now let's save this file.
And now jump back into our styles dot CSX file and let's test out these post CSX features.
Let's start with variables.
Well now creating a variable in CSX is as simple as just saying dollar sign.
And then we can make up a name.
Let's call it main blue colon.
And then let's say it has a value of pound to f 5 5 7 2.
Okay.
And now let's imagine we want to use this exact shade of blue.
So imagine we want to select a div with a class of large hero and style any of its heading level 2 elements
and make them have a blue color.
Well we could write a selector like this but while we're at it let's also test out our nested CSX.
So imagine we want to look within the data with the class of large hero.
And then inside this we can have another selector.
So we could say heading level to give that its own curly brackets.
And now we could say a color should use dollar sign main blue.
Now this code is absolutely not valid CSX and the web browser will have no idea what this means.
But because we have an automated workflow Now Westpac will create a file that the web browser does understand.
So let's save this file and then in the command line let's tell web pack to begin running.
So NPM run Dev presenter OK.
And then if we go to the Web browser and refresh.
Cool.
So if you scroll down a bit and find the headline that reads one trip away you can see that it is now
blue.
The fact that this is blue lets us know that we have successfully configured our post CSX plug ins and
that brings this lesson to a close.
Now in our next lesson we will finally break free from all of these hypothetical exercises and we will
begin writing the actual CSX and HMO for the fictional travel agency Web site.
It's gonna be a lot of fun.
This is where the course really starts to move at a much faster pace.
I'm looking forward to building the site out together with you.
We've come a long way so far in the course we've learned about a lot of new technologies and tools but
at the same time we are just now getting started.
Let's keep trucking and I will see you in the next lesson.